For our focus management exercise,
we are going to add a more
accessible modal layer.
And we'll see how that
the mechanics of that work.
We've learned about tabindex and
how to like trap focus into new layers.
So let's apply it in an example.
We're gonna use pre-built components for
this.
So it should be a little less
in the weeds than ARIA example.
But let's go into this and
see what we've got here.
So for
our image gallery that's in progress,
when I click this,
I have a layer that pops up.
It's not totally done in that,
it does have a close button I can open and
close it, but
I can still get behind that content.
So if that layer is open, I mean,
the display looks funky for
one, but it should really
be blocking me from getting
anywhere behind that layer when it open.
So totally not working.
Let's make something that
does work better, and
we're gonna reach for
components that are already built in.
Because it's a lot easier sometimes.
But we'll look at what are the building
blocks of what they're doing that make it
actually accessible and make it work.
So in our product image gallery,
let's add some components here.
So let's see how it's working right now.
There is a full screen image
state that we're setting on and
off when you click on that image.
So the image is, first of all,
it's a div with an onClick.
Let's make that a button,
let's give it an aria-label.
Open image in full-screen because the alt
attribute would supply
text to that button.
But it would just be the alt
attribute from the image, and
that wouldn't really say what
this action is gonna do.
So clicking on this button,
in this iteration will open
it in a full-screen layer.
So this layer down here is just a regular
old div, it's got some positioning on it.
It has a close button that is another
div with a click event on it.
I think we could just cut our losses and
try a prebuilt component.
And we have some prebuilt components
in here using Shockley Career UI.
And for react,
I think they have Vue versions and
maybe some other options as well.
It's pretty solid, so I would
definitely recommend checking it out if
you're in this part of web development.
So let's pull in,
I'm gonna open up our modal.
Chakra UI and let's go
over to the components.
And I think it's, we need to go to React.
Components, that's where they live and
then Modal.
So interestingly, there's a set of
components under the title overlay.
And so that's this kind of general
concept for something like a layer.
Not to be confused with
an accessibility overlay,
which we are not even really
discussing today, but overlays, modals.
So for this example,
we will grab these components.
We already have Chakra UI React
in our project, so
it's pretty easy to grab these.
They're really great about documenting
how they're adding accessibility.
So, anytime you go to reach for
a pre-built component,
read up on what they have to offer on
this kind of thing and test a demo.
Before you go through the work of
importing it and seeing if it'll work,
go test a demo site first.
And so, some of the things we want
to look for, they are very helpful.
Writing out here, including when
the modal opens, they trap focus in it.
Hey, we know that one.
When the modal opens,
focus is automatically set to the first
enabled element, or
you can tell it what element to focus on.
That is awesome.
So it's something they're
calling initial focus ref.
So, that is a way for
us to reference an element in React,
to say we wanna focus there
when it opens initially.
And then they have a similar
one called finalFocusRef.
So we can choose where to restore focus,
but you don't have to,
they automatically do it for
you, that's amazing.
You can click on it to close it,
you can use the escape key.
Scrolling is blocked behind the modal.
It's rendered in a portal
attached to the end of the body.
So it will break it out so
that it's easier to put a NERT on it.
That was that topic we
were just talking about.
So they're really thinking about
all the right things here.
So if you can use prebuilt components
sometimes, it is a good choice.
And then they have some
ARIA stuff in here.
So they use the aria-modal,
I guess that's a state.
And then they have some labeling
already wired up for you,
that's It's pretty magical.
So let's go add that.
We have an image component,
so I'm gonna add to it.
And for our modal, We're gonna go
pull in some of these components.
So I've got the imports,
let's grab some of this content as well.
They have multiple overlays here.
I wanna get the basic usage.
So we already have a button to open it.
We will grab this modal, we even
have the state to open and close it.
We just want the markup
from this component.
So down here in JSX, I will leave our
full screen image state to render this.
And instead of modal is open,
I will say setFullscreenImage or
let's see.
What do I want to call it?
Yes, so.
What did I add here before actually,
onClose I will say What did I have before?
So we can closefullscreen, so I have
a fullscreenImage and closefullscreen.
Get back here, closefullscreen.
So since I'm not passing any arguments, I
can just reference this callback function.
For this one, I'm gonna say,
I'm gonna take fullscreenImage,
and it It will be a string, I believe.
And so I can turn it into a truthy
falsy variable just by putting
a double exclamation point in front of it.
So that will hinge off of that state
that I'm already, I'm already managing.
And we can go up here to see that,
fullscreenImage is being
managed with you state.
Okay, so
we are not going to use a modal footer.
The modal body will be our image.
So I'm gonna grab the, This image,
I think it's just scaled
down in the smaller size.
So if I open it up with the same asset,
it'll just have the display
to show it bigger.
But I think if you had
different size image assets,
you'd show a bigger one in
the full-screen gallery right.
So our Modal Title, this one,
the design does not have a title showing.
Titles are pretty important for modals.
So I think in this case I
might just include one and
then I would talk with my team.
How are we gonna handle this?
The design doesn't have a Title on it,
but we have to include one.
I could investigate adding a screen
reader only class to this or
something to keep it there but
not show it visually.
But for now, I'm going to put the alt
attribute or maybe the product name.
Only one of those.
Okay, so we have a modal,
let's see what it looks like.
Hey, there it is.
Our style looks a little weird,
but it's already there.
It opened up, it's in the full
context of the window and so.
I can probably control that
with some relative positioning,
but that was like the easiest modal
implementation I've ever done.
And we can take advantage of
some of these libraries now.
Like it didn't used to be that you
could grab a modal off the shelf and
have any hope that it would be accessible,
but like, this is awesome.
So love you Chakra.
[LAUGH] Thank you.
So for this,
let's see if we can control that.
I'll say div className relative.
That is a tailwind class that will
add CSS relative positioning.
So hopefully try and contain some of this.
We might just be kind of not impacting it
in the right way because it's in our slide
references when the full page version
is really what we're gonna care about.
There is a prop for
this also to make the modal go fullscreen.
Think it might be view of full.
This is another area where I'm not gonna
go down the TypeScript rabbit hole,
but sometimes it can, it can be helpful.
I don't,
can't quite recall what the prop is, but
it does, you do have a way
to fullScreen this, really.
So let's see, I'm actually
going to open up our example page.
Wow, that was pretty cool how
easy that was to open and close.
This title is not the right color,
nor is it's the button,
but I think we can fix that.
I mean, the button would be, Pretty,
I think I could do, like colorScheme.
I think that's the Chakra
way of calling things.
I think I might be able to
give it a black colorScheme.
I'm trying to remember,
we'll play with it.
And I can always go back to
the Chakra docs and sort that out.
So for this one, let's see what
it looks like in our full page.
So here's an example, so I do have
the correct color of button here, I didn't
end up including the title on this one,
but we could figure that part out too.
So that is a modal that if I
tab around that close button
is the only focusable thing.
But we know there's other elements on this
page that were focusable before this.
So this modal is doing some
heavy lifting for us, and
that was the easiest copy of
code I think I've ever done.
So try using it, because this
is really what we wanna get to,
is to be able to send focus to
the modal layer when it opens.
I can hit Esc and go back.
My focus was back where we started,
even though we couldn't quite see it.
So that is, yeah,
that's some focus management right there.